@document.meta
title: 20. Start Writing
description: How to write your notes.
authors: takuto
categories:
created: 2024-03-12T00:15:03+0900
updated: 2024-03-12T07:23:19+0900
version: 1.1.1
weight: 20
@end

* How to Write Your Notes
** Basics of Modules
   There is a config option `config.load = {}` to define modules you want to use.

   ,I decomposed that into a local var `modules` in above code for simplicity tho.,

   More information about modules in {:$/doc/30-modules:* Modules} section.
   I'd recommend just simply adding the ones already stated in {:$/doc/10-get-started:** Kickstart Config}.

** How to Write Notes
   Below text is a sample note which explains about the norg syntax.

   Run `:Neorg toggle-concealer` to see the raw text.

* Heading 1
  - Spec: {:$/1.0-specification:** Structural Detached Modifiers}
  -- This links to a local copy of {https://github.com/nvim-neorg/norg-specs/blob/main/1.0-specification.norg}.
  -- Read {https://github.com/pysan3/Norg-Tutorial#before-you-start}[Before you start] and download these files.

  Normal text here.
  Single new line will be ignored.

  Double new lines mean a new paragraph.

** Heading 2
   Indentation of normal text is advised to align with the start of the heading name.
   See? The indentation of this text is different from the ones in {* Heading 1}.

   Oh, BTW that's how you create in-document links. Literal heading name wrapped in `{}`.
   Press `<Enter>` on the link to jump to the definition.
   (case, space *in*-sensitive, punctuation *sensitive*).
   More about links in {* links}
   ---

  With `---`, you can decrease the heading level. This text is inside {* Heading 1} again.

  - Bullet List
  -- Spec: {:$/1.0-specification:*** Unordered Lists}
  -- Second level bullet is with `--` and not an indented `-`.
  --- Third level
  -- Second level
  - In insert mode, press `<M-CR>` to create a new bullet.
  -- Press `<C-t>`, `<C-d>` to increase, decrease the level.
  -- More info can be found {https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/wiki/Indent}[Wiki - Indent] or {https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/blob/main/lua/neorg/modules/core/keybinds/keybinds.lua}[Raw code].

  ~ Numbered List
  ~~ Spec: {:$/1.0-specification:*** Ordered Lists}
  ~~ It's `~`, not `1.` (Tho the conceal makes it look like that)
  -- Can be mixed with bullets as well (not in markdown tho).
  ~ Second

  > Quotes
  >> Spec: {:$/1.0-specification:*** Quotes}
  >> Quote level 2

  - You can use {:$/1.0-specification:*** TODO Status Extension}[TODO lists] in combination with these lists.
  -- I highly suggest reading this section as well.

* Links
  - Spec: {:$/1.0-specification:** Link Location}

  There are so so many types of useful links in `norg`.
  You can also press `<Enter>` on all links to open the appropriate application.
  (e.g. urls are opened in the browser.)

  Again, `Vhyrro` does a great job explaining about links in his video,
  {https://youtu.be/Bi9JiW5nSig?t=17m44s}[From No Org to Neorg #2: 17:44~] so go ahead and watch that video.

** Links Examples
   - URL: `{https://xxx.example.com}`
   -- URL with name: {https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg/}[Neorg GitHub]
   - Norg files
   -- Relative to current file: `{:foo/bar:}` -> `foo/bar.norg`
   -- Absolute path: `{:/tmp/foo/bar:}` -> `/tmp/foo/bar.norg`. (Also works with `~/` = `$HOME/`)
   -- Relative to current workspace: `{:$/foo/bar:}` -> `~/Norg/Notes/foo/bar.norg`
   -- Relative to different workspace: `{:$work/foo/bar:}` -> `~/Norg/work/foo/bar.norg`
   - Usual files: `{/ /path/to/file}`
   - Headings: {* Heading 1}
   -- Any level heading: {# Heading 2}

   *AND YOU CAN COMBINE THEM*
   - `Heading 1` of `foo/bar.norg`: {:foo/bar:* Heading 1}
   - Line numbers: {:foo/bar:4}

* Attached Modifiers
  - \*bold\*: *bold*
  - \/italic\/: /italic/
  - \_underline\_: _underline_
  - \-strike-through\-: -strike-through-
  - \!spoiler\!: !spoiler!
  - \^superscript\^: ^superscript^ (cannot be nested into `subscript`)
  - \,subscript\,: ,subscript, (cannot be nested into `superscript`)
  - \`inline code\`: `inline code` (disables any nested markup - verbatim)
  - \%{** Null Modifier}[null modifier]\%: %null modifier%
  - \$inline math\$: $f(x) = y$ (verbatim)
  - \&variable\&: &variable& (verbatim)
